# FPGA Implementation of Fully Pipelined Advanced Encryption Standard
A huge value of sensitive data is transferred daily via different channels such as e-commerce, electronic banking and even over simple email applications. There is always a chance of threat of data confidentiality, data integrity and also of data availability. Information has become one of the most important assets in growing demand of need to store every single importance of events in everyday life. Encryption is the popular method to protect private data. According to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is the latest known secure encryption algorithm. However, data size is growing up dramatically, thus it is required to encrypt a high volume of data in a second that is achievable using pipeline technique.  AES can be implemented in both software and hardware. As compared to software implementation hardware implementation of AES has advantage of increased throughput and more security. This paper presents a 128 bit Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) implementation of the 128 bit block and 128 bit key AES cipher. Selected FPGA family is Spartan 6. This FPGA is able to encrypt 22,832 Mbps with the delay 352 ns. Synthesis result is the use of 5% of total register slices, 11% of total Lookup table (LUTs) and 68% of total Input Output Block (IOBs) those are operated at frequency 185.2 MHz. The design target was high throughput using pipeline architecture.

* Language: VHDL, C, matlab, Python
